README.md, before:

# Awesome Berachain validators [![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

> Collection of Berachain validators resources

## Contents
[Monitoring](#monitoring)  
[Proof of Liquidity](#pol)  
[Data](#data)  
[Snapshots](#snapshots)  
[FAQ](#faq)  

## Monitoring

* [Berachain Validator Monitoring](https://grafana.tools.berachain.com/public-dashboards/d2ebb1bef39846c194e9fb731526856f?orgId=1&from=1727808520612&to=1727851720612) - Public Dashboard
* [Tenderduty](https://github.com/blockpane/tenderduty) - Comprehensive monitoring tool for Tendermint chains. Its primary function is to alert a validator if they are missing blocks, and more.
* [cosmos-validator-watcher](https://github.com/kilnfi/cosmos-validator-watcher) - Real-time Cosmos-based chains monitoring.
* [tmtop](https://github.com/QuokkaStake/tmtop) - A top-like tool for monitoring chain consensus.
* [CVMS](https://github.com/cosmostation/cvms) - Integrated view for validators with thier essential metrics
* [BeraChain Scan](https://berachainscan.com) - Custom Block Explorer

## PoL

* [Synergynode cutting board tool](https://beratools.synergynodes.com/) - Simple UI to manage your Berachef cutting board.
* [Kodiak cutting board tool](https://cutting-board.beraden.com/) - Simple UI to manage your Berachef cutting board.

## Data
* [BGTscan](https://bgtscan.com/) - BGT rewards dashboard
* [Nodes map](https://services.tienthuattoan.com/testnet/berachain-v2/map) - Berachain v2 nodes map
* [B-Harvest dashboard](https://bera-dashboard.bharvest.io/) - Validators data by B-Harvest

## Snapshots

| Provider                                                                                                        | Database  |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|
| [A41](https://narrow-cello-dab.notion.site/A41-Berachain-Testnet-v2-Snapshots-4d39b8e7046e4fc8bce4ce9cf5053b97) | pebbledb  |
| [Allnodes](https://www.publicnode.com/snapshots#berachain)                                                      | goleveldb |
| [Berachain (Asia)](https://storage.googleapis.com/bartio-snapshot-as/index.html)                                | pebbledb  |
| [Berachain (Europe)](https://storage.googleapis.com/bartio-snapshot-eu/index.html)                              | pebbledb  |
| [Berachain (North America)](https://storage.googleapis.com/bartio-snapshot/index.html)                          | pebbledb  |
| [Blacknodes](https://services.blacknodes.net/Berachain-V2/)                                                     | pebbledb  |
| [Blockhunters](https://blockhunters.dev/testnet/berachainv2/snapshot)                                           | goleveldb |
| [Brightlystake](https://testnet-berav2.brightlystake.com/snapshot/)                                             | pebbledb  |
| [Contribution DAO](https://services.contributiondao.com/testnet/berachain-v2/snapshots)                         | pebbledb  |
| [Imperator](https://www.imperator.co/services/chain-services/testnets/bera-v2)                                  | goleveldb |
| [L0vd services](https://chain-services.l0vd.com/testnets/berachain_v2/snapshot#sync-from-snapshot-pebbledb)     | pebbledb  |
| [Staketab](https://services.staketab.org/docs/beacon-testnet/snapshot)                                          | pebbledb  |
| [Synergy Nodes](https://synergynodes.com/service/berachain-v2-testnet)                                          | pebbledb  |
| [TTT VN](https://services.tienthuattoan.com/testnet/berachain-v2/snapshot)                                      | pebbledb  |

## FAQ
* **How do I address missed blocks on my validator?**
    * Check disk I/O metrics, make sure your node can keep up.
    * NVMe storage is highly recomended over SSDs for better performance.
    * The CPU is another possible bottleneck. Some users have reported that overclocking has helped dissipate the problem.
    * For validators on AWS,`i4i.2xlarge` is a good example of machine spec which has been reported to work without issues.
    * For more context, [please see this relevant discussion](https://discord.com/channels/924442927399313448/1245159849986228284/1273677626615009443).
* **My BGT rewards are delayed or missing!**
  * Please review your cutting board, ensure that the weights are setup exactly the way you expect them.
  * You can use any of [these tools](#pol) to make the job easy.
  * Currently the rewards distribution is less centralized and (very rarely) likely to be disrupted. The berachain team will continue to monitor and fix any problems, but expect more decentralization (and more resileince) in the future.
  * If you updated your cutting board and are worried about the status of the update, you can check the current status through a [contract call](https://docs.berachain.com/developers/contracts/berachef). Please see discussion [here](https://discord.com/channels/924442927399313448/1245159849986228284/1275152865089949781).
* **I have questions on snapshots?**
  * More information [here](snapshots.md).
* **I'm unable to update the cutting board - returns an error**
  * Please see above for tools that you can use to update your cutting board. You can also run trasanctions from the command-line (ex. `cast`)
  * Check the transaction details on the explorer - what does it say? For example, [this transaction ](https://bartio.beratrail.io/tx/0x0ad986617ee16ebb60b04b988d4aa845e817e3788702b716b949eeeb0986b17f) returned an error because the operator address was not registered.
  * To set the operator address, run: `cast send 0xfb81E39E3970076ab2693fA5C45A07Cc724C93c2 "setOperator(address)" 0xYOUROPERATORADDRESS --rpc-url ETH_RPC_URL --private-key YOURPRIVATEKEYWITHOUT0x`
  * Please make sure to read the instructions very carefully - addresses, amounts, etc.
* **How do I check for peering issues?**
  * Poor peering can result in your node falling behind and potentially missing out on rewards.
  * Keep an eye on your logs if your suspect any peering problems - these will usually show up as a "connection refused" message, "could not resolve host" etc.
  * Check for established connections to your node. ex. on linux `netstat -plant|grep ESTABLISHED`, which gives you the source addresses to verify peering.
  * [Check your geographic region](https://services.tienthuattoan.com/testnet/berachain-v2/map) for the availability of nearby peers; consider relocating to a different region.
  * Change your execution client - remember that peering can affect both the execution and consensus layers. Reth appears to have substantially more peers than geth.
  * Make sure that you have alerting set up on both layers to catch any problems proactively. More information was provided during the [monitoring office hours](https://discord.com/channels/924442927399313448/1245528095553753169/1270454196940046418).

## Contributing

Your contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

### Changelog

* 2024-08-02: Initial release

Commit message:

add encapsulate berachain ansible playbook

README.md, after:

# Awesome Berachain validators [![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

> Collection of Berachain validators resources

## Contents
[Monitoring](#monitoring)  
[Proof of Liquidity](#pol)  
[Data](#data)
[Tooling](#tooling)
[Snapshots](#snapshots)  
[FAQ](#faq)  

## Monitoring

* [Berachain Validator Monitoring](https://grafana.tools.berachain.com/public-dashboards/d2ebb1bef39846c194e9fb731526856f?orgId=1&from=1727808520612&to=1727851720612) - Public Dashboard
* [Tenderduty](https://github.com/blockpane/tenderduty) - Comprehensive monitoring tool for Tendermint chains. Its primary function is to alert a validator if they are missing blocks, and more.
* [cosmos-validator-watcher](https://github.com/kilnfi/cosmos-validator-watcher) - Real-time Cosmos-based chains monitoring.
* [tmtop](https://github.com/QuokkaStake/tmtop) - A top-like tool for monitoring chain consensus.
* [CVMS](https://github.com/cosmostation/cvms) - Integrated view for validators with thier essential metrics
* [BeraChain Scan](https://berachainscan.com) - Custom Block Explorer

## PoL

* [Synergynode cutting board tool](https://beratools.synergynodes.com/) - Simple UI to manage your Berachef cutting board.
* [Kodiak cutting board tool](https://cutting-board.beraden.com/) - Simple UI to manage your Berachef cutting board.

## Data
* [BGTscan](https://bgtscan.com/) - BGT rewards dashboard
* [Nodes map](https://services.tienthuattoan.com/testnet/berachain-v2/map) - Berachain v2 nodes map
* [B-Harvest dashboard](https://bera-dashboard.bharvest.io/) - Validators data by B-Harvest

## Tooling
* [berachain-ansible-playbook](https://github.com/encapsulate-xyz/berachain-ansible) - The Encapsulate Berachain Ansible Playbook enables seamless deployment and management of Berachain execution and consensus nodes, with a strong emphasis on security, customization, and operational simplicity.

## Snapshots

| Provider                                                                                                        | Database  |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|
| [A41](https://narrow-cello-dab.notion.site/A41-Berachain-Testnet-v2-Snapshots-4d39b8e7046e4fc8bce4ce9cf5053b97) | pebbledb  |
| [Allnodes](https://www.publicnode.com/snapshots#berachain)                                                      | goleveldb |
| [Berachain (Asia)](https://storage.googleapis.com/bartio-snapshot-as/index.html)                                | pebbledb  |
| [Berachain (Europe)](https://storage.googleapis.com/bartio-snapshot-eu/index.html)                              | pebbledb  |
| [Berachain (North America)](https://storage.googleapis.com/bartio-snapshot/index.html)                          | pebbledb  |
| [Blacknodes](https://services.blacknodes.net/Berachain-V2/)                                                     | pebbledb  |
| [Blockhunters](https://blockhunters.dev/testnet/berachainv2/snapshot)                                           | goleveldb |
| [Brightlystake](https://testnet-berav2.brightlystake.com/snapshot/)                                             | pebbledb  |
| [Contribution DAO](https://services.contributiondao.com/testnet/berachain-v2/snapshots)                         | pebbledb  |
| [Imperator](https://www.imperator.co/services/chain-services/testnets/bera-v2)                                  | goleveldb |
| [L0vd services](https://chain-services.l0vd.com/testnets/berachain_v2/snapshot#sync-from-snapshot-pebbledb)     | pebbledb  |
| [Staketab](https://services.staketab.org/docs/beacon-testnet/snapshot)                                          | pebbledb  |
| [Synergy Nodes](https://synergynodes.com/service/berachain-v2-testnet)                                          | pebbledb  |
| [TTT VN](https://services.tienthuattoan.com/testnet/berachain-v2/snapshot)                                      | pebbledb  |

## FAQ
* **How do I address missed blocks on my validator?**
    * Check disk I/O metrics, make sure your node can keep up.
    * NVMe storage is highly recomended over SSDs for better performance.
    * The CPU is another possible bottleneck. Some users have reported that overclocking has helped dissipate the problem.
    * For validators on AWS,`i4i.2xlarge` is a good example of machine spec which has been reported to work without issues.
    * For more context, [please see this relevant discussion](https://discord.com/channels/924442927399313448/1245159849986228284/1273677626615009443).
* **My BGT rewards are delayed or missing!**
  * Please review your cutting board, ensure that the weights are setup exactly the way you expect them.
  * You can use any of [these tools](#pol) to make the job easy.
  * Currently the rewards distribution is less centralized and (very rarely) likely to be disrupted. The berachain team will continue to monitor and fix any problems, but expect more decentralization (and more resileince) in the future.
  * If you updated your cutting board and are worried about the status of the update, you can check the current status through a [contract call](https://docs.berachain.com/developers/contracts/berachef). Please see discussion [here](https://discord.com/channels/924442927399313448/1245159849986228284/1275152865089949781).
* **I have questions on snapshots?**
  * More information [here](snapshots.md).
* **I'm unable to update the cutting board - returns an error**
  * Please see above for tools that you can use to update your cutting board. You can also run trasanctions from the command-line (ex. `cast`)
  * Check the transaction details on the explorer - what does it say? For example, [this transaction ](https://bartio.beratrail.io/tx/0x0ad986617ee16ebb60b04b988d4aa845e817e3788702b716b949eeeb0986b17f) returned an error because the operator address was not registered.
  * To set the operator address, run: `cast send 0xfb81E39E3970076ab2693fA5C45A07Cc724C93c2 "setOperator(address)" 0xYOUROPERATORADDRESS --rpc-url ETH_RPC_URL --private-key YOURPRIVATEKEYWITHOUT0x`
  * Please make sure to read the instructions very carefully - addresses, amounts, etc.
* **How do I check for peering issues?**
  * Poor peering can result in your node falling behind and potentially missing out on rewards.
  * Keep an eye on your logs if your suspect any peering problems - these will usually show up as a "connection refused" message, "could not resolve host" etc.
  * Check for established connections to your node. ex. on linux `netstat -plant|grep ESTABLISHED`, which gives you the source addresses to verify peering.
  * [Check your geographic region](https://services.tienthuattoan.com/testnet/berachain-v2/map) for the availability of nearby peers; consider relocating to a different region.
  * Change your execution client - remember that peering can affect both the execution and consensus layers. Reth appears to have substantially more peers than geth.
  * Make sure that you have alerting set up on both layers to catch any problems proactively. More information was provided during the [monitoring office hours](https://discord.com/channels/924442927399313448/1245528095553753169/1270454196940046418).

## Contributing

Your contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

### Changelog

* 2024-08-02: Initial release
